# ECC Pop Quiz
Category: crypto
Points: 478
Solves: 63

## Description
Your crypto professor has taught y'all about ECC and now, here's a pop quiz regarding some of the attacks on it. See if you can pass the quiz!

## Notes
I learned all of these Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) attacks while working through challenges on a website called `CryptoHack`. I definetely recommend the website for anyone interested in learning about cryptography in general!

The goal was to introduce people to ECC and get them used to using SageMath as it is a very useful tool to solve cryptography challenges.

The server was made using SageMath because it is very easy to do the Elliptic Curve calculations needed.

The curves for each part were pre-computed and saved to a json file to save on computation time during the CTF. The curves for Smarts attack were generated using an open-source tool called `ecgen`. The MOV attack curves were generated by a script I wrote called `mov_attack_generator.py`. The singular curve were generated by a script I wrote called `singular_curves_generator.py`.

## Flag
flag{4Ll_0f_tH353_4tT4cK5_R3lY_0N_51mPl1FY1n9_th3_D15cr3t3_l09_pr08l3m}

## Solution
For Part 1, the order of the ECC curve is equal to the prime used for the field, aka `p`. So, an attack called Smart's attack can be applied on the curve which allows us to perform the discrete log of the curve in linear time. This paper (`https://wstein.org/edu/2010/414/projects/novotney.pdf`) goes over the details of why the attack works as well as a SageMath implementation method for the attack. The script `smarts_attack_solver.sage` is the solver for part 1.

For Part 2, the MOV attack can be used on the curves. The idea for the MOV attack is to take the curve and map the points to a different curve where the discrete log calculations would be easier. For that to happen, the embedding degree of the curve must be less than 6, aka `(p^k-1) % order = 0` and `k` is the embedding degree. With k<=6, it is possible to map the given points to the curve with field F(p^k) and quickly calculate the discrete log of the new points. The script `mov_attack_solver.sage` is the solver for part 2.

For Part 3, the given curve is a singular curve. In a singular curve, the parameters `a` and `b` satisfy the relationship `[4*(a^3) + 27*(b^2)] % p == 0`. This means that the discrete log is quick to calculate for this curve. The script `singular_curves_solver.sage` is the solver for part 3.

For the entire script implementation including server interaction, please check out `solution.sage`.
